P6. Data Visualization: Titanic DataSummaryThe visualizations were created using the Titanic dataset from Kaggle.  The first visualization shows that women have better survival rate than men. The second visualization shows that both Passenger Class and Gender played a major role in determining the chances of survival, and higher class passengers and females have better chances.DesignOn April 15, 1912, during her maiden voyage, the Titanic sank after colliding with an iceberg, killing 1502 out of 2224 passengers and crew.  There were not enough life boats and it lead to a significant loss of life. The dataset used for analysis has 897 passengers’ data.  Initial exploration was done using pandas.  The results showed that the women have better chance of survival than men. Also upper class passengers have better survival rates than the lower class. Part of the data exploration, I have used seaborn for quick plotting to visualize the dataFindings from the explorations:Out of 577 male passengers, only 109 i.e less than 20 percent survived. However, out of the total 314 female passengers, 233 i.e upto 74 percent of the females survived. The survival rate of female passengers was much greater than that of male passengers.Ninety six percent of upper passenger class females survived compared to the 50% from the lower passenger class. Thirty six percent of upper passenger class males survived compared to the 13% from the lower passenger class. Even in the upper passenger class, women significantly had higher survival rates (96%) compared to men (36%).I chose to present my findings using below two charts and created them with dimple.js. 1.Survival rate based on Gender2. Survival rate based on Passenger Class and Gender  I particularly chose these two charts because of the powerful story they can convey in terms of survival rates. For both visualizations, I chose bar charts because of the categorical variables involved.   In the second chart I chose to encode gender with color since it  makes it very apparent to visualize the survival rate differences between males and females.Also the specific colors were chosen because pink and blue tend to be cultural norms to represent females and males.  Here is the list of the charts.Before feedback:The html made before feedback can be found in: Data_visualization_initial.htmlFeedbackFeedback was gathered by presenting the charts to three friends.#1Grey bars look darker and not very pleasing to the eyes. Color draws more attention that data, especially in the first chart.  However, I like the text explanation and it gave a perfect context for the chart.#2Good text explanation makes it very clear on what the chart represents.  Good titles, margins and spacing. If survival rate can be shown in terms of percentage instead of decimals, it will be more user friendly and understandable#3I like the second chart better since it gives the context of both gender and passenger class. However, passenger class 1,2,3 are difficult to interpret without proper explanation.  Need to be more user friendly and the chart should be self-explanatory.After Feedback the following changes were made:Modified the bar charts color.  Chose a lighter grey. ( based on Feedback #1)Converted decimal survival rate to percentage survival rates  (based on Feedback #2)Replaced passenger class 1,2,3 with Upper class, middle class and lower class  (based on Feedback #3)The html made after feedback was saved as data_visualization_final.htmlResources HYPERLINK "https://www.udacity.com/course/viewer#%21/c-ud507-nd"Data Visualization course HYPERLINK "https://github.com/ypaparna/P2" Exploration of Titanic dataset using Pandashttps://www.w3schools.com/colors/colors_picker.asp